experiments.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Experiments
tagline: Completed and ongoing experiments and initiatives
permalink: /experiments.html
ref: experiments
order: 2
---

## Recent Experiments

[Whose birthday is today?](/experiments/chdl-0001-a.md){: .btn}

[How many works by Beethoven are performed each year, on how many events?](/experiments/chdl-0002.md){: .btn}

[Comparison of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven](/experiments/chdl-0003.md){: .btn}

[Comparison of the "Three Bs"](/experiments/chdl-0004.md){: .btn}

## Planned Experiments

Ideas, prompts, questions, and stories that will guide upcoming experiments.

- TBD
- TBD

## Data Related Initiatives
- Carnegie Hall's <a href="https://www.carnegiehall.org/About/History/Performance-History-Search" target="_blank">performance history as linked open data</a> (SPARQL endpoint)
- Search, browse, and download Archives material in the Carnegie Hall <a href="https://collections.carnegiehall.org/" target="_blank">Digital Collections Preview</a>
- Carnegie Hall Digital Collections <a href="https://carnegiehall.github.io/digitalcolls-metadataprofile/" target="_blank">Metadata Application Profile</a>

[Go to the Home Page]({{ '/' | absolute_url }})

Commit message:

add issue tracker to planned experiments

experiments.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Experiments
tagline: Completed and ongoing experiments and initiatives
permalink: /experiments.html
ref: experiments
order: 2
---

## Recent Experiments

[Whose birthday is today?](/experiments/chdl-0001-a.md){: .btn}

[How many works by Beethoven are performed each year, on how many events?](/experiments/chdl-0002.md){: .btn}

[Comparison of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven](/experiments/chdl-0003.md){: .btn}

[Comparison of the "Three Bs"](/experiments/chdl-0004.md){: .btn}

## Planned Experiments

Ideas, prompts, questions, and stories that will guide upcoming experiments.

- TBD
- Check out the [Issue tracker](https://github.com/CarnegieHall/datalab/issues) and feel free to submit a suggestion!

## Data Related Initiatives
- Carnegie Hall's <a href="https://www.carnegiehall.org/About/History/Performance-History-Search" target="_blank">performance history as linked open data</a> (SPARQL endpoint)
- Search, browse, and download Archives material in the Carnegie Hall <a href="https://collections.carnegiehall.org/" target="_blank">Digital Collections Preview</a>
- Carnegie Hall Digital Collections <a href="https://carnegiehall.github.io/digitalcolls-metadataprofile/" target="_blank">Metadata Application Profile</a>

[Go to the Home Page]({{ '/' | absolute_url }})
