experiments/chdl-0006.md, before:

# chdl-0006

## Non-Classical Music Events at CH, by Genre

A pie chart showing the breakdown of non-classical music events at Carnegie Hall, listed by genre

<figure class="chart_container">
<iframe 
width="600" height="371" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vT5gc-Sbf98tt9n53vlMMEhc4RTKaC3fgq-QDF-5X3dm12CsGHBnkAavBflTxrkgWmR_Q53uU_2Jxgr/pubchart?oid=755660071&amp;format=interactive">
</iframe>
</figure>

[Return to Experiments page]({{ '/experiments' | absolute_url }})

# Lab Report
a template for summarizing Data Lab experiments

## EXPERIMENT LABEL/TITLE
Non-Classical Music Events at CH, by Genre

## TL;DR
Create a pie chart to show non-classical music genre labels and percentage counts, relative to the number of Carnegie Hall events that have a genre keyword assigned to them.

# -verbose

## METHODS
We created a SPARQL query to count the number of performances for each genre:

```
PREFIX event: <http://purl.org/NET/c4dm/event.owl#>
PREFIX mo: <http://purl.org/ontology/mo/>
PREFIX rdfs: <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#>
PREFIX rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>
SELECT ?genreLabel (COUNT (DISTINCT?event) AS ?numberOfEvents) 
WHERE {
    ?event rdf:type event:Event ;
           mo:genre ?genre .
    ?genre rdfs:label ?genreLabel .
}
GROUP BY ?genreLabel
ORDER BY ?genreLabel
```

## CONCLUSIONS
### what we learned
- summarize, add date for appended thoughts

### further investigation 
- things we could not figure out/tool limitations
- link to open GH Issues (if applicable)


[Return to Experiments page]({{ '/experiments' | absolute_url }})

Commit message:

Added text from blog post
Added text/link in method, conclusion, further investigation.

experiments/chdl-0006.md, after:

# chdl-0006

## Non-Classical Music Events at CH, by Genre

A pie chart showing the breakdown of non-classical music events at Carnegie Hall, listed by genre

<figure class="chart_container">
<iframe 
width="600" height="371" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vT5gc-Sbf98tt9n53vlMMEhc4RTKaC3fgq-QDF-5X3dm12CsGHBnkAavBflTxrkgWmR_Q53uU_2Jxgr/pubchart?oid=755660071&amp;format=interactive">
</iframe>
</figure>

[Return to Experiments page]({{ '/experiments' | absolute_url }})

# Lab Report

## EXPERIMENT LABEL/TITLE
Non-Classical Music Events at CH, by Genre

## TL;DR
Create a pie chart to show non-classical music genre labels and percentage counts, relative to the number of Carnegie Hall events that have a genre keyword assigned to them.

# -verbose

## METHODS
We created a SPARQL query to count the number of performances for each genre. We outline the use of genre at Carnegie Hall here, which includes the background to this query:

```
PREFIX event: <http://purl.org/NET/c4dm/event.owl#>
PREFIX mo: <http://purl.org/ontology/mo/>
PREFIX rdfs: <http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#>
PREFIX rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>
SELECT ?genreLabel (COUNT (DISTINCT?event) AS ?numberOfEvents) 
WHERE {
    ?event rdf:type event:Event ;
           mo:genre ?genre .
    ?genre rdfs:label ?genreLabel .
}
GROUP BY ?genreLabel
ORDER BY ?genreLabel
```

## CONCLUSIONS
### what we learned
While this chart serves as a nice visualization for genre in non-classical music events at Carnegie Hall, it is incomplete. Genre is not recorded on every non-classical music event, and our current set of genre vocabulary is not up to date or all-inclusive. We continue to face several genre challenges related to the limits of our database and to the inconsistencies of the overall genre discussion.

### further investigation 
We’re still wrapping our heads around our own internal discussion of genre and ask for feedback and/or responses to this chart and to any of the talking points in our discussion post. If you have done work similar to this or have also been tossing around musical genre questions in your mind, contact us or tweet using #CHDataLab.


[Return to Experiments page]({{ '/experiments' | absolute_url }})
