# chdl-0003

## Comparison of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven

A chart showing how many works by the "First Viennese School" composers are performed each year at Carnegie Hall.

<figure class="chart_container">
  <iframe 
  width="600" height="371" seamless frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vS2j3xjBi75YjM0JzQhxlA9lBplSPQu9lgu0JwXm0FBJ7ls23UeUwNauC94bSwckqCKFtH5aCfnvheW/pubchart?oid=1602631198&amp;format=interactive">
  </iframe>
</figure>

[Return to Experiments page]({{ '/experiments' | absolute_url }})

# Lab Report

## EXPERIMENT LABEL/TITLE
Comparison of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven

## TL;DR
Create a line chart that correlates the number of works by Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven performed each year at Carnegie Hall.

## -verbose
<details>
  <summary>Click for more</summary>
  </br>

  Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and Ludwig van Beethoven are commonly referred to as the “First Viennese School” of composers (the “Second Viennese School” being Arnold Schoenberg and his students/associates in the early 20th Century). The nearly 130-year history of Carnegie Hall presents and interesting opportunity to examine changes in popularity for these composers that now command such a central position in the classical music canon.
Rationale: a single concert might include performances of more than one work by any one of these composers, e.g. an “All-Beethoven” concert featuring several piano sonatas. The scope encompasses any work written by Haydn, Mozart, or Beethoven (including portions of works, e.g. a performance of only one movement from a sonata) performed each year at CH from the first performances at the Hall in 1891 until July 1, 2019 (the most recent update of data on data.carnegiehall.org).

## METHODS
We created a SPARQL query to count the number of each composer’s works performed each year:

```
PREFIX chnames: <http://data.carnegiehall.org/names/>
PREFIX dcterms: <http://purl.org/dc/terms/>
PREFIX event: <http://purl.org/NET/c4dm/event.owl#>
PREFIX foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>
SELECT ?yearOfEvent (COUNT(DISTINCT ?workPerf) AS ?numberOfWorks) 
WHERE {
  ?work dcterms:creator chnames:1003781 .
  ?event dcterms:date ?date
         BIND (str(YEAR(?date)) AS ?yearOfEvent)
  ?event event:product ?workPerf .
  ?workPerf event:product ?work
}
GROUP BY ?yearOfEvent
ORDER BY ?yearOfEvent
```

The query was run three times, substituting to appropriate identifier for each composer in the first line of the WHERE clause:
```
?work dcterms:creator chnames:1003781  (Haydn)
?work dcterms:creator chnames:1006075  (Mozart)
?work dcterms:creator chnames:1005833  (Beethoven)
```

We then created a Google Sheet using the query results, added a Smooth Line chart to visualize the data, and created an embed link for the chart to use on our Data Lab site.

## CONCLUSIONS
### what we learned
Google Charts are very easy to create, and with the embed option they provide an out-of-the-box tool to make nice data visualizations with no special development skills.

### further investigation 
Using Google Sheets/Charts for visualizations requires hosting the data in a personal Google Drive account. Ideally, we’d like to learn how to use a tool like D3.js to create chart visualizations on our own without having to host the data files externally.
Another option: we currently use Ontotext’s GraphDB for our RDF data. GraphDB’s Workbench user interface offers several data display options, including the ability to create a Google Chart .svg file directly from the UI. Adding the .svg file to our Data Lab site could provide a more direct method for visualization with a shallower learning curve than D3.js.
</details>


[Return to Experiments page]({{ '/experiments' | absolute_url }})
